# YouTube Transcript

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10tXsYBEvw4

## Transcript

The reason why online reputation management is very important for large language models is because large language models functions off. Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of Jolly SEO's TLDDR. I'm your host, Greg Hilers, co-founder at Jolly SEO, where we specialize in earned link building and not just links these days, but brand mentions, which is perfect to introduce our guest, Bernard Hang, the founder of Clear Scope, who I am relying on today to help me understand how we get our brand represented well in this new age of AEO. So, Bernard, thank you so much for taking the time and joining us. It's always an honor, a pleasure. Thank you for having me, Greg. Love just poking the boundaries of this new world that we're all forced into understanding. >> That's right. Yeah, we were talking pre-recording. It's been about five years actually. I did the math since we were talking since you were last on the podcast. And since then, all of us in SEO have been adjusting to a lot of moving targets these days. So, we like to keep it frank in these podcast recordings. And today we're going to talk about, like you said, pushing the boundaries of what we do and don't know, right? Um, we were talking about pre-recording the state of attribution. It's still murky and I had hoped things were going to get clear, but you kind of corrected me on that and said, in your opinion, not so much. not so much. So when we talk about attribution, I think in a historical sense, you know, one would think about booting up their Google Analytics. You know, I I reminisce fondly of GA3. I know we're at four, but it's that that state where you could then say, okay, you know, this user came from search and then converted on my site and search is the, you know, attributable source and we were talking and I my opinion is that attribution is very dark right now in the sense that you know if Chad GPT sends you like does it actually get attributed correctly, right? And so if Chad GPT, you know, you're talking with it and then it cites one of your pieces of content and then somebody clicks on that, sure, you're going to get that refer source equals chat GPT. But in a lot of ways, the tracking is becoming a lot more intangible. What I mean by that is that if a user is asking prompts about the topic that you want to be mentioned in and the model mentions you, what the user is likely to do is not click on a source because not giving, you know, clear sources when it mentions you. You're going to Google the brand and then you're going to click on the homepage or whatever page you land on and then guess what gets attributed? It's search, right? It's not AI like traffic. Also, with all the data privacy flaws and concerns going around everywhere, cookies and all this tracking stuff is just a lot more nightmarish. And that's why I think attribution is only going to get worse. >> Yeah. So, are we think of it more directionally? I mean, we we talked about branded search. I know I wrote a piece for MA years ago. Uh Morgan did as well. Uh just here at Jolly, we focused on branded backlinks for so long that we were saying, well, hey, if if your branded search goes up, it's not exactly one to one causation. Uh but it's correlation. We're doing something right over here for our clients. If your branded search is going up, is that is that what we're trying to see as uh SEOs or AEOs that if our clients branded search is going up that we've managed their brands reputation in chat GPT somewhat effectively? Hey, hope you're enjoying the show. We're going to get right back to it. Real quick, if you're not sure how you're showing up in AI tools like ChatGpt, Perplexity, and the like, click on that first link in the description. If you fill that out for us, we'll send you your own AI visibility report and see how we can help you boost your results. All right, without further ado, remember that link and enjoy the rest of the show. >> I think it is one of three indicators at this point. So, branded search, yes. Right. If you're being mentioned by GPT, Gemini, Claude, then your branded impressions will go up. And that's a symptom or like a that's like yeah something that you get from boosted AI visibility. The problem with that is that you know for a larger brand let's say they're running a Super Bowl ad you know like obviously your branded search is going to go up there. So it's not a clearly like okay your AI visibility is going up but overall you're doing well digitally and you know everything does have like a halo effect within one another. So that's one. Uh the two other ways that people are thinking about at least attribution within AEO is a brand mention and a AI citation. And there's been a lot of debate, a lot of discussion about the validity of an AI citation, why it matters and a brand mention and why it matters. But there are also holes within each one of the different uh variables. So brand mention is you ask the model, you know, what are the best whatever and then the model mentions your brand, right? That's did it mention it, did it not mention it? And you can measure that, right? You have a lot of different AI prompt tracking tools. You know, Clear Scope can now help with that as well. But the problem with brand mentions and just solely using that is that not all prompts deserve brand mentions, right? If I'm prompting what is AEO to Gemini, Gemini is not going to start spouting out like clear scope this or tool X that. It's just going to be like AEO is you know the concept of improving visibility in AI and you know this that and that. I mean maybe they might recommend some tools but it's not it's not a given. And the lack of you being mentioned on an informational or research prompt isn't necessarily a bad thing, right? And so you can't get dinged if no brands are being mentioned. So those are the holes in like brand mentions. AI citation is the last like metric that I would track in terms of AEO. And AI citation refers to the fact that in certain cases models will give sources or citations to web pages or domains that it is pulling some percentage of information from. And so when you see that and you see your your page being cited or s uh being used as a source, you could then say, okay, that's a good thing because clearly the model trusts my brand or my domain enough to be quoting or citing my web page. However, there are holes with this as well. And the fundamental biggest hole that we are currently seeing is within model bias suppression was is like the fancy way of saying Gemini doesn't want to recommend a brand and then use content from that brand. So what it ends up happening is that you know for a best SEO tools prompt you're not going to see HRES or Semrush or all of these different very popular tools being cited because the model is saying I do not trust any of those because I am recommending them. Therefore I will not site anything that comes from those domains. So, right, if we look at it in that way and we're tracking the problems, best SEO tools, HRFS gets brand mentioned but didn't get cited, should we really be penalized, right, as AEOs for not getting the citation when the model literally will not give brands being mentioned a citation? You know, you can't. So anyways, it's a weird state of attribution and I that's why I think it's only going to get worse. >> Yeah, absolutely. I mean at this point in a conversation realistically is where half throwing our hands up in the air, half being pragmatic, we would say like so what can we do? I had Nick Ranger on the podcast a few weeks ago uh as of the time of recording and she had explained to me and then our audience query fan out and so the reason that I'm excited to talk about this with you is you know clear scope as far as I understand the history and when we last recorded you guys were related to content production and optimizing content originally and content itself is changing and so Nick was saying that for their clients she uses query fan out like we used to do with topic clusters. Uh but her advice was allin-one like monster epic page. We're trying now to capture everything related to the topic. And so I'm curious your perspective. I know that we may not always get those citations either way. Uh but at the time of recording with the models we've got anyway uh moving targets as they may be what do you think about this? Are we are we shifting away from having dozens of pages to try to be the one-stop resource or are we literally trying to have it be just one stop on our own website to capture an audit? >> Great question. Love Nick. love that you know she's thinking about query fan out in you know this particular world and I think that the answer is neither here nor there. So what I mean by that is that we have also been doing extensive research into query fan out and query fan out refers to the fact that when you ask models you know any prompt the model will perform searches grounding with different engines primarily Google to validate or augment the response that they're about to give to the end user. Fundamentally, this is important because models are trained on data that has a knowledge cutoff. The latest Google models are only updated to January of last year. And so if you're asking anything that has to do with freshness or current events or you know anything in 2026, Gemini is not going to know or have any history of knowing. So it must search. That brings us to the fundamental interesting component then of web searches. Uh first off when we were testing this at clear scope we would call the API once. Gemini would perform its searches and then we would say okay well the way to then get your brand and your domain in front of Gemini as a large language model is to intersect it when it's doing its web searches or query fanout. And so we would then design individual pieces of content to target each one of the searches with the idea that uh by increasing our domain surface area for the different subtopics that Gemini is searching for, we will have more probability to influence the model in all of the different searches that are happening. I believe you know Nick's firm Dehan has also done extensive research that proves that you know there is a grounding budget something like 2,000 words or something like that that the models are currently allowing for you know the grounding to influence. And the going thought back then was that if you have five pages and it performs five web searches and all five of your pages, you know, are in the top three spots, well, you're going to get a lot more of that budget than if only one page were in, you know, like a couple of those spots because it was a big like, you know, hub page, topic, cluster, whatever. So that was the going thought. We tested it and what we learned very quickly and this is now how we're iterating on this idea is that web searches are fundamentally probabilistic. What I mean by that is that each time you call Gemini for you know a specific prompt it will search but those searches have frequencies. So there's a lot of different ways that we're thinking about this. This is super like nerdy stuff. But when you call Gemini's like API and you actually set the temperature of the large language model to zero, what you're doing is you're saying give me no variance in your response. Right? A temperature of one is basically the standard of what users interact with models. And that's to say okay within you know a bound of like possibilities you have a 100% of that leeway to kind of float between you know 20 to 70% depending on you know what the large language model is feeling at temperature zero there's no deviation right so we're basically at the closest understanding of what the large language model is suggesting and we're testing basically only creating content against web searches performed at temperature zero because that's fundamentally what the model is always going to do. Those sets of web searches become I think a lot more important than you know the ones that just get searched 5% of the time or 10% of the time. At the same time, what we are doing is we're taking temperature one and we are pinging the API a lot of times and what we're getting back is a distribution of web searches being performed over the course of a hundred a thousand you know permutations. And what we're finding is that temperature is zero. Web searches correlate strongly with highly frequently searched things that the model cares about. Obviously that makes a lot of sense. But then you start to see that there is this long long tail of somewhat gibberish somewhat you know coherent stuff where it's like you know best free SEO tools 2026 for small business and that happens like you know 2% of the time and you might then say okay well that 2% of the time who cares. So all of this is to say my updated understanding of how to tackle web searches happens to deal with the frequency of occurrence and the like model's own fundamental understanding against web searches where temperature is zero. You definitely want, you know, like full holistic pieces of content, high quality targeting those particular searches because the models are definitely trying to look that up. However, for the, you know, web searches with way less frequency, you have to pick and choose the ones that make sense if you have a limited budget. But um pick and choose the ones that make sense. Understanding that this like variance that's happening also correlates to probably memory and context stuff that the model has already been presented with. Right? So the you know back to that example where Gemini performs you know free best SEO tools for 2026 small business. Chances are right there is a small percentage of people who Gemini classifies as a small business and when they search you know best SEO tools Gemini will fire off you know that particular web search for that particular user because they found that to be relevant to the user. So for the long long tail I still believe that you know you want to cover those in singular pieces of content. So now you have your topic clusters that are targeting the head terms which are the highest frequency in terms of web searches that are happening whether that's temperature zero or you sampled a large set using temperature one. And then you want to create longtail content targeting each one of the lower frequency searches and hopefully just target the ones that are like relevant for your business. >> Yeah. Fascinating. It's it's a tricky I like that you mentioned grounding budget aside. You also mentioned financial budget uh for not just the SEO, right? That the that company or the in-house marketer or the small business owner. It's a lot to think about covering. Uh, and I want to shift gears on you here because we already talked about how tricky search attribution can be, but we also talked about even though we may not have direct attribution, we do think directionally that users are and hey again moving target today it's chatbt and Gemini tomorrow we don't know but they are using these search platforms increasingly so. Uh so I wanted to ask you about brand reputation management. Uh we both have talked about this topic before and I'm always trying to learn here and so I just want to show my cards. I always like to be honest with the audience the limit of my knowledge here. Uh Bernard this is as sophisticated as I am right now. I am asking either about prompts, let's call them the old school terms, money keywords or the most commercial keywords relevant to my business or I'm searching about my brand directly. You know, is Jolly SEO a good link building agency? these basic kind of search terms and then I'm pulling open the side panel of sources or citations and I'm trying to see what is influencing Chat GBT's responses related to me or to my key terms and then I'm reaching out to those websites in most cases I'm actually in some small cases thinking like a link builder would trying to out build them maybe outrank them so to speak uh to use old school Google terminology But in most cases, I'm reaching out directly to them saying, "Hey, can you update this for this because that's not exactly accurate, trying to position myself in a better light. But as simplistic as that sounds, that's about as sophisticated as Greg is today." Uh, so I just wanted to know, Bernard, seeing that and and hearing, you know, as far as I've gotten, what are some other things that we can do when we see Chad GPT, for instance, give a neutral or negative review of our brand, either in a direct search about us or in a really important term related to our business. Greg, your playbook is the most solid I've ever heard. So, I'll just leave it at that. Right. If you think about fundamentally how large language models work, you ought to think about three different layers. You have a the training data layer, b the validation layer, and c the memory and context that the model has about you as a user. So when we're thinking about online reputation management and the reason why online reputation management is even an important aspect to discuss in the first place happens to deal with how large language models work right SEO is built primarily on links right if New York Times linked to you it votes with high authority because it itself had a lot of links so you know it passes that link equity to whoever whoever it's linking to. That was at least simple enough as it is. The reason why online reputation management is very important for large language models is because large language models functions off of entities and topics and co-occurrence, right? That's why there's this whole thing where you know you comment spam on Reddit or Kora or whatever and people are seeing results, right? Because what ends up happening is that you're injecting brand and topic co-occurrence that large language models pick up on, right? The patterns and then by picking up on them, they start to then want to recommend your brand for the topic that it's seen over and over and over again, right? So that's why online reputation, brand management is super important. That said, training data, right? You could try to affect training data, but that's hard and that takes a long time, right? Again, Gemini's latest training data was only trained till January of 2025. So, you were either in that snapshot or you weren't. And you know, you now have I guess like what 13 months to to like have built up some more stuff to have a hope or a shot to influence the next snapshot of training data. That's unreliable, right? And so essentially what you just laid out is okay, how do I then affect the validation layer when the model is grounding itself with search and you're specifically targeting these sources that the models are citing and you know performing direct outreach to those particular websites. That's exactly how you would you would influence it. It just so happens that Reddit is oftentimes included in these citations, which is why Reddit has been a fast shortcut for AEO digital marketing practitioners to hop on the bandwagon for. But other than that, like you basically cannot influence the model, right? It's either the training data or it's whatever it's grounding in search. And with the sources being laid out, those are the like you know that budget that it assigns. That's the only way. I'll just add the caveat like a little asterct that says we're also testing the same idea from a frequency of sources and grounding and temperature zero and we're finding that sources also have basically variance and frequency. So if you're going to perform outreach, you basically want to perform outreach on the citations and the sources that are 100% or or you know close to 100%. And you're going to see that as well if you ground ground it and then temperature zero or you just hit the API you know 100 times. You're going to see the sources also have a frequency and importance that's associated with them. That's a really fantastic takeaway because as I was sharing, you know, we're doing the outreach, but not spray and prey just to defend myself, but we I wasn't discriminating against the sources with any real scientific method. There was just subjectively, oh, this one looks like I have a shot at reaching out to them, but as you say, maybe they were only going to show up in that one search anyhow. So, uh, maybe I didn't need to spend my time there. Time being limited. I I wanted to push you, um, before we get to my favorite question on the podcast here towards the end. I wanted to push you a little bit, uh, look into your crystal ball, Bernard. You mentioned Reddit. We offer Reddit brand mentions now. Uh, how could we not? It's 2026. Do you think a year from now in 2027, we'll be here talking about Reddit? Do you think in 2028 uh what do you think the future holds for that one? It's already we've seen varied over time in its influence. Are we Some people think it'll go to zero, some people think it'll remain relevant. >> Yeah, I mean I I think the answer lies in how Reddit is managed. That's all that I can say. So currently, Reddit has been a gold mine of unique, interesting, human-led discussions around topics all around the world. However, everybody has noticed that, you know, Reddit's a pretty big part of how trading data works, so on and so forth. So a lot of people are spamming it, you know, whether they're spamming it through some semi-automatic manner or purely automatic manner or just, you know, human like hand by hand way, it's happening. So I think that if Reddit can fight off all of the spam, and again, I don't know how they do that. Maybe to be a Reddit participant you have to you know like expose your identity and only people who have exposed their identities can contribute to Reddit because if you don't you know you're not trusted or you might be an AI whatever right and so I think that if Reddit can hold its ground in terms of being an oasis for humans to discuss topics and trends and whatever it is that they want to discuss, then Reddit will continue to be a valuable source of data for LLMs and AI to tap into. If Reddit loses the war and Reddit becomes AI fililled spam, whatever loss in customer trust or user trust, then the value of Reddit will diminish like any other, you know, heavily spammed platform. Yeah, very logical. Uh, Bernard, I I really wanted you to come on because of all the research you conduct over at Clear Scope. I mean, you you guys are very scientific about your approach to these topics. And so, my favorite question of this podcast is actually to ask you, what did I not ask you? What did I not even think about? It's more of a don't know what I don't know issue here that you'd like to share with us before we wrap up. I mean, yeah, usually people ask about like predictions. People ask about, you know, like search traffic. Um, I would say it's probably just, yeah, like predictions is what you haven't asked at least explicitly. You asked for the Reddit like prediction. But yeah, I think the the prediction of like, okay, what's going to happen to search um and traffic like moving forward is probably the question that I get asked a lot. >> Well, you've you've seen SEO through a couple pivots. So, both of us are dealing with not just uh companies changing, but models changing on the fly on us. And so do you see I guess my prediction question for you then would be Bernard do you see us needing to pivot more rapidly in the near future or is the dust going to settle at some point here? I mean the arms race from my end seems like it's just heating up. What do you see? >> Yeah, I think that the word pivot I think is is interesting. I think that there are certain things about AEO that differ from SEO. And so in those ways, yes, you should pivot some of those strategies away. And you know, aspects of that could be, you know, building a bunch of backlinks to one page, right? Because in the SEO world, you ranked number one if you did that and then you got all of the traffic. But in in AEO world, it doesn't play out like that, right? Like I think either in pre-recording or during this like conversation, we were talking about how Gemini likes to reduce bias in its recommendations. And so if it's deciding to mention Mailchimp as part of a prompt, you know, is this the best like email marketing software or what are the best email marketing softwares? It's not going to rely on what Mailchimp has to say, even though Mailchimp's article on the best email marketing software could be ranked number one, right? And so those are like aspects of things where you need to pivot your way of of thinking. And then I think the other way that you need to pivot is how you measure how you're winning, right? And so I think there's a lot of misconception where leadership teams are breathing down SEOs, content marketers, and saying, "Well, get back my traffic." You know, like get it back. We used to do 100,000 visits a month. Now we're doing 40,000. So, you know, what's the plan to get it back? I think that that is probably the most fundamental pivot that you need to make as a marketer communicating to leadership. And what you need to tell them is that the traffic is not coming back. Right? Instead of traffic, you're going to get brand mentions or AI citations or branded queries or searches that are happening. And it's very important for leadership to understand that so that you can start to pivot your resources, right? Maybe a little bit away from all of these other activities that served the traffic aspects and more towards online reputation, brand management, creating content targeting the fan out of queries rather than what users are searching for, right? And so these are the adjustments that I think you have to make. >> I think that's spot on from what I've seen. I I for years have struggled to position Jolly SEO services because SEOs from my perspective were often in-house in the performance marketing side of the budget. They were right up against the PPCs fighting for that budget. And I I always aligned better with the brand marketers when we were able to work with them. And that's how I saw our work. And I think a lot of SEOs in the past year and a half or so have been waking up to the fact that we are marketers. And if you're able to communicate with leadership and reposition yourself as part of the brand marketing budget rather than the direct attribution performance marketing, I think you may find that you can get more alignment with the work you're doing. I I think that's spot on. Bernard, look, none of us have a crystal ball, but I've really appreciated your insights today, Bernard. Uh, obviously people should go to clearcope.io. Where else can they look you up if they want to ask you some questions directly? >> Yeah, I would say I'm the most active on LinkedIn currently. So, you can find me, add me on LinkedIn. And then we do have a newsletter at Clear Scope. That's where we share our learnings, you know, that's where we have our webinars with awesome speakers. So, you know, sign up for that if you want to stay up to date on the latest in AI visibility. Fantastic. Bernard, thank you so much for coming on today. See you next time. >> Yeah, thank you for having me.
