# YouTube Transcript

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ohPxcZJbQi8

## Transcript

Hello everyone. Hello everyone. It's another episode of Surfers Academy. Uh before I welcome my guest, uh let me try the sound. uh tell me uh how you can hear me, if you can see me well. Uh if it doesn't break the connection, if I clean the desk, uh let me know. Uh I can already see myself on YouTube, so you probably see me, but let me know if you can hear me. And please, please with a big round of applause, please welcome my today's guest, Steve Todd. Big round of applause for the man. And we Hey, Michael. Great to see you. Uh, I can't hear you right now. I muted myself. Why not? [laughter] 100 people already and we didn't even say hi. Uh thank you so much. Uh your community is great. AI notebook, SEO notebook, big big amount of people. Thank you, Steve. >> Oh, thank you so much for having me. I'm excited to be here. This is what our third one I think in the last few years. So I think it seems to be now an annual tradition that uh and and as well of course we each represent each other's shirts, right? So we're rep all the way across the world. >> Yeah. Proud proud to to represent. I I've got it from Changai SEO uh and it's like a treasure uh in my in my room. So uh yeah, I wear it only on the special occasions. Uh I'm wondering uh what everyone expects from today's webinar. We have really buzzing chat. Uh let us know. Um we collected uh your questions. Obviously there were so many uh that I clustered them uh and we will start out with uh answering uh a few of those uh to keep the format more entertaining. I thought that Steve maybe we could you could actually because we will be picking your brain mostly today. Uh if you could answer them with one sentence. Uh I know they may be tempting to expand but let's let's give it a shot. Uh warm-up questions, warm- up answers, and then uh we've we go with the plan. So, first question, what's the single most effective way to get our content cited in AI answers? At this point, it's about retrievability and omnipresence. So, you want your beginning and the end of your article to be highly compact and descriptive about what's in it. Um, I would suggest putting a table in the middle. Uh, and then, um, making sure that you're omnipresent and you have not just presence on your own website, but across the web. So, your LinkedIn, your G2, your Reddit. >> Does it does it include uh does it include guests posts, PR, uh, stuff like that? >> Certainly can. Yes. >> Correct. >> Good one. Uh, another one. What's one practical AI visibility tactic that works right now? Just one tactic can be the table in the middle, right? >> Comparison pages and recency. So having a comparison page where you're talking about like the current date and the current month, >> that's a good one. >> Yeah. Uh I I heard obviously it's an anecdotal evidence but one of our clients uh decided to change the not only like the headline with updated date and so on but they also changed uh the URL and I was like hm >> I would be afraid you know 301 and stuff right but it worked uh it worked so >> we We all know that with SEO, we we never liked it when our clients put dates in the URLs, but it actually does help with LLM. >> You see, uh only two questions deep and we already got some uh some golden nuggets for the people. Love that. uh biggest difference between AI SEO and well SEO for Google for the blue links. Yeah, AI SEO is probabilistic. So you're not going to get the same type of answer every time. So there's even more variation than there was um you know regionally and and personalization wise than with Google. Um, so your measurement becomes um more directional than absolute. Uh, but there's um, you know, I'm not going to ever say that there's not overlap between AI and SEO. There's a tremendous amount of overlap, but there's also a very much difference in the user behavior in terms of how people use LLM versus how they use uh, Google, right? for LLMs are, you know, initially they're doing discovery which like you know a lot of that shifting behavior but they're also very much qualifying you in a different way right whereas the qualification used to take place on your website or reading a bunch of you know open tabs about your company um now all of that has collapsed into one search journey so your representation and how your brand is described and known on LLM's uh that influences um a lot more compound act uh than it is, you know, trying to rank for um uh one keyword and then having a person uh try to do their, you know, fitbased sort of um conversation about like is this the right tool for me? None of that is taking place on websites anymore. It's all taking place within one. >> So I would say it's like user is in charge of the direction of their research, right? Because back then when the user opened the page they were like forced to basically read your message. But now they can read two three sentences change their mind like oh I need this integration and then ask like does it have it? No but the others have and you want to be the other if you weren't the first choice. >> Exactly. Yeah. So that's a great point is like all well what I'm I'm talked about this on AI notebook a lot this concept of deal breakers right so what are those things that when you have a ICP who wants to make a decision let's say they want I always use this example if you've heard it before like a project management software I needed to have a Slack integration I needed to um have customer support hours in my area I needed to have Gant charts and time tracking and fit my budget these these are the questions that go beyond the initial discovery and you also have to optimize for those just as much as you do for those highle terms. Right? And the other point that I want to make on this, which I think is super important to understand is the the fact of the of of showing up accurately for your deal breakers is super important because the people who are doing the discovery searches for like the project management software, those might be like the people who are the freelancer using it for the first time etc. the real like you know project management scrum you know qualified person they're not doing the search of like what's the best project management software they're doing the search of like I need it to support x y and z because I'm I'm switching systems so those users are actually your higher lifetime value users as well so not only thinking about discovery and that you know search volume from Google translating to chat GPT but what about what happens s after all of that, right? So, we're calling that trust alignment framework at notebook agency, but um you know, you can just call it accurate brand representation as well. That's quite a sentence, you know. [laughter] Uh this one will be quick. Uh but thank you for for like uh we we could have like a little discussion. Uh I hope >> I'm breaking the rules, aren't I? >> Yeah. Yeah. I should be the moderator here. Uh with like this. No, stop. No, but uh it's too good to to be stopped really. So uh moving on. Uh separate content for Google LL and LLMs. Yes or no? >> No, I would still say no. Like the the opportunity with LLMs is still emerging. You know, there's it's just a fraction of of use uh than than Google. But I think we're inevitably going to see, you know, AI mode roll out and that may also change things dramatically, right? So I would not at this point recommend any explicitly separate content like you know you've got you can create content that is just for LLMs, right? But I wouldn't take your landing page and create one for LLM and one for Google. But it will be hard to get cited with just for LLM's content if you are not ranking in let's say any find out query. So >> that's that's tricky. These are like connected. >> The question is like sorry the question is like um you know is there search volume right and sometimes there is no search volume on Google but there's a a path that the LLM wants to direct that person down that um is would nec would um justify a page that might not have any search volume. Right? So that's where it's like, you know, it would rank for that fan out query, but like there's a good chance that there's some fan out queries that the LLMs are searching that aren't actually searched by humans. >> Yeah, 100%. Uh when we introduced fanout queries uh to the AI tracker inside surfer, I realized how crazy these fan out queries can be. Um, number one metric for marketing themes to focus in zero click era. Zero click. Yeah, kind of. I mean, clicks getting lower, but can we call it zero click? >> It has to be revenue. It has to be revenue at the end of the day, right? So, it has to be if you're a lead generation business, it's how many leads you're getting. Um, I mean, first touch organic, you know, you got to be asking people at this point in the game, where did you find us? Where did you research us? And relying on that selfattribution as well, right? Um, so it has to be leads, it has to be revenue, but then your other question is like, okay, is it first touch, is it one touch, is it last touch? Like, oh boy. uh over the years, you know, I've been in SEO since 2010. Uh 2011 was when Google started doing not provided in search console. You know, before that they took away the page rank toolbar. Every year they make it harder and harder for us to report. So, I'm just telling my clients and the people that I work with, um, we have to focus on leads and revenue at this point because that those crocodile graphs are going to continue to to show up, but it does not mean that people don't still have problems that they're searching for solutions. >> Uh, the the next one is about the content format that performs best. And we've got also comments on uh YouTube, are listicles still good? And you mentioned listicles a couple minutes ago. Is it the one uh or the best, the biggest, the most promising? What would you say? >> Yeah, I actually Glenn also did some great research on listicles uh recently um and found that you know they're still a highly cited content type. So definitely still agree with that. And then in terms of formatting, um, you know, your intro and your outro, uh, matter a lot, right? So, have you ever, you know, done a really long prompt and then there's like that stuff in the middle that just like doesn't get followed? Well, it's that's the same state when uh, LLM try to analyze a page today. Um, the the beginning and the end of the prompt or the article are understood fairly well. >> Basically, the article is the prompt, right? Uh yeah. Yeah. And the murky middle, this like middle section where things can get lost or not followed. Um that's still a limitation that we're seeing um in LLM. I talked about that today on a notebook.com. Um the email that went out. So um in terms of your content structure in your intro paragraph, you really want to lay out sequentially what you're going to be talking about. And then in your con your conclusion, you really want to wrap that up. And then if you can have some like structured data like tables and uh things that are really keep things like one idea per paragraph is another big uh uh part of uh and you know any optimization but especially now with LLMs and then also that you're going from one section to the next, right? your logical flow of your article and I know that surfer has done an amazing job with that with their AI content. >> Yeah, when when we've been do you've been doing this uh uh meetup after the Changai SEO I had this presentation there as well and there was specifically uh on this topic. So I will just quickly add to that. uh so uh like you said at the beginning for some models uh it is enough to tell that I will provide an answer in this content for the others is not only promise but also deliver within the first paragraph. So ideally you could blend these two like I will expand on that in this article but hey short answer is uh water boils in 100° uh but it has some caveats like high elevation sea level and so on uh and I will explain that later. So that's the way of structuring the beginning uh of the article for uh for sure. Uh moving on with these questions, but they are really good. Uh first thing you would do in the first 30 days for a brand new site in 26. >> Uh specifically around LLM, I would get a sense of how well I'm doing, right? So take measurements, right? Um we've given away dashboards on uh on AI notebook. If you sign up, you'll actually get access to a dashboard that you can just select your G4 property and see all of your metrics, right? So, understand um which LLM are driving you the most traffic. So, in most cases right now, it's chat GPT. I mean, Google's not technically separated from that with AI overviews yet, um or AI mode. So, we're technically seeing ChachiBT usually pop up as the number one refer. Um, understanding uh which I I can't read what that is, Michael. >> Yeah. Notebook.com, guys. >> Okay. Um, I uh I would um understand which pages are getting cited the most by you, right? And that you can also tell u with your from your G4 or the dashboard that I sent you. Um, I would set up prompt tracking. Surfer has a great prompt tracking tool that you can uh set up with just a few clicks. Uh their recommendations are also very good. I commend you on that, Mike. Michael. Um I noticed that a lot of prompt tracking tools don't have very good prompt recommendations. I think you guys have done a wonderful job. But I would also, you know, think about the common questions that you get asked, uh, uh, you know, from your sales staff and stuff like that and start to create prompts out of those questions that, you know, that your customers are asking. Um, and then, you know, couple that with some of the suggested prompts and whatnot. And that's a that is probably a first 60 days activity to be honest. But um getting a sense of where you are uh engaging you know your current footprint and where the improvement areas are that's exactly where I would spend that first six days. >> Uh and then you know from there you're looking at improving the content that's already getting cited uh and and creating content and improving your landing pages so that they're comprehensive that they're answering those deal breaker questions. Um creating more comparison content. uh against you and other companies um seeing how that fares when people search for like you know your brand pro plus alternative etc. >> Can you can you brainstorm deal breakers with charge GBT for example? >> Yeah, I actually created a bot called dealbreaker detector uh that does exactly that. So, um, what we did was, uh, basically you just, um, I modeled a bunch of questions like, so if just back up for a sec, if you're prompting or creating any bots and stuff like that, um, LLMs work super well by giving them examples of what's in the background. So, we have like another bot, for example, that predicts the next question in the searcher's journey. And for that bot, I put real human keyword research as the examples. And then LLMs are very good at transposing the examples into other areas. So I did the same thing with dealbreaker detector. Uh put in a bunch of deal breakers for different industries and then all you have to really do is just put in your niche. Uh and it will generate a bunch of dealbreakers for you. >> Where can we find it? >> Uh I will send you guys the link and you can link to it in the show notes. >> Perfection. A quick three quick question from the audience right now. Um uh using persona descriptions in prompt tracking. >> Great question. Very, very good question. Um, so one of the I think what they're alluding to here is that um the user is likely going to get a result that's tailored to them. So, for example, if I search for project management software, I'm probably going to get things like ClickUp and ASA and things that are more geared towards SEO agencies, whereas like my developer friend is probably going to get things like Jira, right? Um, so what what this person is asking is like in the prompt itself, should I put, you know, who the ICP is if I'm targeting different things since it's very likely that the prompt tracking tool is not going to have that same user embedding. So I do think it is uh useful and I know that some tools have gone that route of trying to um optimize the prompt and um I think that it would be a good visibility for yourself to even just directionally see how and look at those results and see how relevant you are to the ICPs that matter. They may not be the exact prompts that your ICP is searching necessarily self-identifying like I want project management software for SEO agencies, but um you know some may search that and I think it's a good idea to get uh a read on how visible you are uh for the ICPs that matter to your brand. >> Thank you. Um that's that's definitely a good one. Uh the next next one is about the search volume. uh can you get it? And I will quickly say well hard really hard uh really hard work to get it real and in most cases it's basically some hacking methods of some biased data sets of people who are vulnerable to installing a plugin or something. So yeah, don't trust search volume of a prompt. Uh >> yeah, so I have lots to say about this. I mean, you're saying it exactly, right? Right. So, >> um, what Muel's saying, Michael's saying, I always call you Michael. Sorry, I know your name is Mi, but I just like hard for me to take to un North Americanize myself for that. Um, what uh what um what Mikuel is saying is uh that well a ChachiPT doesn't have their own version of Google Search Console and Google's not exactly doing a great job at separating this out for us. Perplexity has nothing. So there's nothing official, right? So the solution that some people in this industry have have found is basically like um using biased data from things like free VPNs or free ad blockers who are in their terms of service, you can see that they're scraping your chat GPT conversations and then on top of that, you know, they're scraping every conversation. And so they're scraping, you know, somebody's math homework to a summary of a book chapter to uh an email and they're looking for these keywords in these prompts and then they're saying, well, if chat GPT users are 1% of the uh you know, we have these these plugins that are scraping this data is like 0.1% of the entire chat GPT users are trying to like extrapolate that out and call it a search volume. and it's just not very good data at all. What I would recommend is to look at at this point your Google search console data um and look at the impressions that you're getting for keywords and transpose that demand over to chat GPT. So on SEO notebook I released a um a prompt and a bot uh called intent volume bot >> and uh what it does is it will summarize uh sorry it will sum uh the it will cluster all the keywords that are similar and it will add together all the impressions for those keywords to give you an idea about the overall intent volume. It will also do that with um any kind of keyword export from a tool that you're using with and but instead combine the search volume so you get a sense of the overall intent and then you know if people are searching that on Google they're likely searching those same types of keywords on chat GPT but that's not the only types of keywords they're searching on chat GPT they're doing those deal breaker questions too but in terms of search volume you can kind of make some inferences is between your GSC data uh and even your Bing master web Bing web master tools data and then kind of transfer that over to what kind of demand we'd see in LLMs before before we move on uh since we still have uh still uh 160 people give it a like button subscribe to the channel I always forget about that request I hope you are having a good time everyone 25 minutes uh in already. Uh repurposing uh website articles into LinkedIn or Reddit for some citations, good strategy. >> So, I mean, Reddit, you got to be careful because you know how Reddit mods are. Um but if you have some accounts that have good standing and you're not too promotional, you're balancing, you know, there's definitely um citability uh opportunities there. Uh, and I think LinkedIn is being slept on big time for um, uh, LLM. That's from what I see when I do >> 100% 100% >> see LinkedIn being cited and uh, and you know, LinkedIn, Microsoft and OpenAI also, but not that that's going to be purposeful, but you know, it's a respected domain and it's continuing to get traffic, so why not um, have some great citation opportunities and listicles and stuff like that on LinkedIn as well. And guess what? Facebook as well, uh, when the post are getting indexed, they can be cited. And I'm literally looking at one example of that right now. And it is like a top 20 most frequently cited page is like a page from a group woodworking for beginners. And there is a post and it is telling you that Makita cordless drill is good. uh and it is in the top 20 of all of the cited uh pages. Uh so uh social media that get indexed uh can be extremely helpful with with uh LinkedIn with Facebook, Instagram, uh all that stuff. Um, so >> if I could just say one thing to you know is like >> for many for many years like when it was just SEO the real like SEOs that I followed would always say things like the answer is hiding in plain sight. The answer is on the SER. You got to don't spend your time only in the tools but go to the SER and look at the related look at the autosuggest. Look at what happens when you click one thing and then click back, you know, like really explore the SER, explore the PAAAS, click on everything in there, you know, and I say the same thing for exploring the LLMs, search things that matter. Don't just do keyword research, you know, but do the searches on LLM. Ask the follow-up questions. open that citations tab on chat GPT and then there you're gonna find the Facebook group, you know, you're gonna find all things. So really like spend time in there. Don't just, you know, think about like running one keyword and then seeing the the the citations and going for that. like spend time in there and then that's where you're going to see those on on you know those slept on sources like the LinkedIn or the Reddit or the Facebook group or the tweet or whatever it is you know you're going to see that there chat is so hot it's so buzzing we are keep getting questions and I'm wondering whether we should turn it into a Q&A session uh as it goes like it right now uh building topical authority to get mentioned in LLMs fan out query What else? >> Uh, I mean topical authority, you know, whatever you want to call it, comprehensiveness, being an expert, um, having an article that has internal links to supporting content. Um, I think those things are really important for SEO and LLM like equally. Uh, you know, another thing that you want to also make sure you're doing is having unique content, having unique data, statistics, um, stuff like that in your articles as well. Uh, how does it relate to fanout queries? Well, your fanout queries are personalized to your ICP, right? Um, if I'm a, you know, an 18-year-old searching for car insurance, I'm probably going to get something around like firsttime drivers, right? So, understanding like who your ICP is, what are the sort of things that branch out from that main keyword or that main topic, covering all those things as comprehensively as you pos possibly can. So that your passages because again it's not pages that are ranked in you know Google's closed system that is you know not technically Google search that they're drawing upon from. It's these passages that are relevant um making sure that you've got uh those scattered around your website um to support the connected topics that you know would be related to your main keyword for your ICP. >> Good one. uh B2B information services, consulting, research. How is it different in AI optimization compared to ecom or SAS where you have like a product offerings? >> Great question. So I often think about this because we work with a lot of B2B companies at Notebook Agency and what you kind of have to understand is like all right so company is looking for single sign on software like uh like an octa or something like that and the director of it uh his job or her job is to go and and research that right well they're going to be using the system the AIS. Obviously, they're going to be using AI at this point. Um, you know, their job is to come back with a complete analysis of all of the different options and what are the pros and cons, how does it integrate into this? You know, they're doing detailed research um using LLM. So, you have to think like, are they using Claude? Are you they using Chat GPD? Are they using Gemini? Probably a mix of both. um for us like we really love claude um at our company but uh they also may be using things like the deep research right so the deep research in in that it's like an agent and it's going out and compiling uh you know these comparisons and stuff so I think with B2B like you're 100% like AI I feel like if if I worked at a company with 500 or a thousand people and I asked my employee to go research a software that we're considering. If they didn't use AI, I would be like, "You're fired." [laughter] Like, um, so 100% like it's it's much different than ecom where, you know, it could be like my mom looking for a Christmas gift for my daughter. She's probably not going to go to chat GBT, right? Um whereas in the B2B world, if you're not coming back with like an extensive kind of research that weighs all the different options and shows how it integrates into your stack and all that kind of stuff, you're not going to be at that company for very long. So I think B2B is one of those areas where we're seeing a lot more adoption in terms of um the it influencing the buyer journey. >> Makes sense 100%. uh like uh you cannot perform such a research by hand and using only your brain like uh it's never going to be as comprehensive because well can you read that much in one day and remember make notes then cluster the notes then compare gazillion tables and no no there's no way >> if I'm if I'm that company and it's my job to research the you know the project management system, the the help desk tool or whatever they they're needing a solution for. I'm asking my boss like, okay, what are the important things to us? What is our budget? Uh what companies have you heard of? What companies do you want me to look into? Um you know, things like that. I'm asking about their deal breakers, right? I may be starting with those discovery searches but I'm I'm looking for the solution that fits the budget. Um is the right size for my company etc. when you go to chat GPT deep research it and I've talked about this before if if you know if anybody follows me the that um the the deep research uh comes back with a bunch of qualifying questions before it goes ahead and spends all those tokens and spends that time doing that research for you before if you put in like you know best help desk software for health healthcare companies or something like that it's going to come back and ask you like what is the size of your company what is your budget? Do you want a cloud-based or on premises solution? There's a theme to the types of uh um uh questions it wants to ask you before it goes and does that research. >> Basically, these questions are the way you are supposed to structure either your website or specific page around the given topic. So actually reverse engineering of a deep research is like a great start to uh figuring out what should be in there. In fact, >> it was the fir it was the first note I did on AI notebook. Yeah. >> Yeah. Oh, you see the last time I I said I need like a something like a signal to highlight something really important. I use I use like this first note of the AI notebook, guys. First note of the AI notebook, reverse engineer the deep research. What does it ask you? And then make sure you answer. Simple as that. Simple as that. >> Gemini Gemini also uh doesn't ask you those questions, but it comes up with it says like here is my plan. Do you agree with this? So you can also do this with Gemini too. Mhm. Uh PR versus Michael, one thing I can say to the audience as well, and I'll follow up with these links, too. Um I I I um created a GBT that's called, uh deep research refinement synthesizer. So basically when you go to those refinements uh those those qualifying questions that it asks you before you go you just like you can click on all the different models or you can just keep saying try again try again try again try again and it will you will copy those outputs and then put them into the GPT and it's going to uh summarize all of those main themes for you. Now, like we've automated that with browser scraping and we've collected that for hundreds of B2B SAS categories. Um, and like for example, my coaching students would have access to those types of tools. But, um, uh, the, uh, the the easy way to do it is to just put in your keyword, uh, regenerate, try again a bunch of those questions all at once, and then summarize them with the bot that I created. And then you've got, you know, a top 10 list of the way that uh the LLM wants to drive that conversation. >> Would be easier to ask you which bots you didn't create. Uh [laughter] but seriously, >> oh, they're all cla I much prefer Claude than chat GBT and I can't share them. But um so what I'm doing is probably sharing the prompts and then >> there might even be a little exclusive community that I'm building that I'm not ready to announce just yet that'll have those prompts in exclusive content. But nice just stay tuned for that. Just keep reading AI notebook for that >> for sure. Uh PR versus backlinks or both. >> Well [clears throat] certainly an interesting question. Uh with PR you have less control over exactly what is going to be that content and you can't exactly chunk it. You can't exactly dictate what that is. But I think there's a high level of trust that comes with good PR and getting your your data uh your brand into you know highly respected publications and all that stuff. So it's a little bit of both, right? If you're backlinking these days, like you want to make sure that if I'm building a backlink, I'm going to chat GPT and telling me asking it like what do you know about this website? Right? Don't even put don't even put the the website domain. Turn web search off and ask the model if it has any awareness of where I'm building this backlink. Right? If that website is completely, you know, if if chat GBD is completely blind to that website, I probably am wasting my time if I'm building a retrievable friendly article um on that site. Right? So um uh I would make sure that the it's baked into the model at least some understanding of what that website is uh before I build a backlink. Oh, I need to take over the screen for a sec because uh we have like a bunch of questions that are strictly related to that. First one was about are these uh tracking tools fake or real whatsoever. And I will just show you like how you get the understanding what you receive when you start tracking prompts. You receive a list of pages with the frequency of how often they are getting cited. So you find out which pages you should build back links on, which pages you should tackle with your outreach. So when you are building links for SEO, you get these sources and you think like, oh, maybe I can kill two birds with one stone. And this is exactly what you need it for to find first pages that are getting cited so you can try to get on them. Plus you see the type of the content in this case is a listical best ecom platform. We are looking at Shopify ecom platform. So you know that you need a listical and if I was and they are look Shopify is already creating a listical best ecom platform but niched down for SMBs uh website builders the big ones. So great they listen they listen they do a good job don't they? >> ICP in the URL. >> Yeah exactly exactly. Uh well and and I picked this example just randomly. Uh I had uh before I had a makita on the screen like best cordless power tools but I thought now maybe I will I will get something more marketing related. Uh and boom there you go. And obviously they are the best of them all. And we are not tracking prompts like is Shopify the best. We are tracking general ecom prompts and in the sources Shopify is the biggest share of the voice with the listical including themselves idally on the top of the list. Beautiful work. >> Exactly what Glenn Alot found and published when he did his study on listicles too. Exactly. >> Beautiful one. So this is uh this is like a a real data you receive from a tracker. Obviously you get like the visibility score, you get the competition. Sometimes it's different between you uh between Google and AI. Sometimes it's different between different AI models. But the biggest value is in these sources in the fan out queries uh and in the data you can reverse engineer and start building your strategy out of it. So thank you for these questions on chat because I desperately wanted to show you uh to show you that stuff. Uh well I'm wondering what are we supposed to do now? uh because it's 20 minutes to go 150 almost 150 people all the time with us and we keep receiving questions. So please the audience tell us what should we do we should keep answering and if you say no no no then well we will stop and go with whatever I have in the Google doc. But now how important is JavaScript SEO in there? Honestly, like you want to make sure that your contract content is uh still readable, but I'm not I'm not a technical SEO wizard, so I leave that stuff to other people. But if you're use like this is my extent of it is like if you're using the web developer Chrome extension and you turn off JavaScript and your content is not readable, that's probably not a good thing. But if you're reading SEO notebook, you know that I'm not like Sesh Kumar Gandhi like uh a technical SEO wizard. Yeah, good. Oh, so healthcare SEO says we should stop answering the questions. All right. Uh so, uh well, it's data study time. Uh I will I will steal the screen for one more minute and show you guys that we uh recently did a study on scraped AI answers versus API results from LLMs. You got all the you got Thank you. You got all the details in here. It was basically uh it started in Changmai. Uh uh Felix approached me and asked me like hey guys what's the difference? I'm like I don't know. Uh and he insist like figure it out and I said like all right let's figure it out and all in all we figured it out and too long you didn't read is basically the results are so much different uh in not only in uh the way the answer is structured but also the length of the answer but also the brands being cited but also the sources that are being pulled. So if you are using some AI tracking tools, please ask them on the support are you scraping or you are using the APIs because if they are using APIs, you are getting ripped off. Uh and I don't want you to be uh in this place. Uh anything to add Steve? >> It's like if you wanted to know rank tracking on Google and they were scraping duck.go. It's like it's not the same results, right? So, um the there's and as you know, there's challenges with scraping chat GBD. It's not exactly like easy. It's hard for companies to get this right and to be able to consistently scrape it. It's a catand- mouse game. And and what we have to realize in the context that we have to give is that those tools that are just using the API, they're kind of taking the easy way out, right? >> Cheap way out. Yeah. Cheap and easy way out, right? So they probably don't have the engineers that that Surfer has to figure out these daily, you know, challenges and, you know, something changed and they got to discover a new approach and all that kind of stuff. they're just going with the cheap and easy solution and you're not getting the the best data possible. >> Right? So we had this five points to take care of uh for the webbby and one of those is uh niching your content with ICP so LLMs can recognize you as the definitive answer and I think we already touched it among these questions like uh ICP in the URL the Shopify example uh tracking uh with the ICP in mind because the fan out questions are different follow-up questions are different but anything to add to niching down with the ICP so people do not felt left without the answer >> 100%. So not like the content best for SMBs like 100%. Do that in your comparison content do that in your landing pages but I'll tell you a little story. So when I uh was SEO manager at FreshBooks from 2018 to 2020, one of the things that the CEO always insisted on no matter what was to put a page on who it's for, who is your company for? and uh and having that on your homepage, calling out your ICPS, having a page specifically that's close to your root directory and even linked from your homepage or your footer, explaining who you're for is a great thing to just feed the LLM and tell it expressly like we target graphic designers, we target Fresh Books, targets contractors, targets um freelancers, etc. all of those things like just being very explicit. Um, I've also talked about this concept of an AI info page. If you go to notebook.agy and you scroll down to the bottom, you'll see a little link that says, "Hey, AI, learn about us." Um, that info page has all of our, you know, CA uh clients, case studies, um, uh, um, uh, service offerings, information about our frameworks, patents that we have, etc. um uh who we service, right? Um you can go on that page and and just start reading all of the things about, you know, who we who we are for, right? Um these are, you know, a clear way to just give the LLM. Uh you can't probably just if you search for like B2B and like, you know, clients and stuff, it'll show you that. Um you know, it's going to show you our our different companies that we worked with and you know, who we who we work with, right? we're explicitly telling the the LLM the types of uh clients we want to target, right? So, having that close to your homepage um is is a is a great place to do that. Um another very underrated uh section where LLMs are pulling a lot of information are your footer. Um, so Will, um, Reynolds from, uh, Seir Interactive did a great study where he put in some stuff about like his client retention rates and different things, um, into his footer. I mean, I should have probably integrated that into the notebook agency footer by now, but it's a shoemakaker's dilemma. Um, but uh, you know, having information in your footer is often getting pulled into um, LLM as well. Also sticking a little bit of stuff about, you know, who you're for or your your key sort of differentiators uh are a great way to do that. >> So it's not a shame to use footer anymore. Uh because we we we feel like footer oh no is like I don't know 2010 or something or you know >> exactly >> but now uh it's fine to use footer everyone. It's fine to use footer. uh uh to the next one because obviously uh we have to uh catch up with stuff uh query find out optimization for the reasoning journey u and I feel like we touched a lot uh of these uh questions around fanout queries but if you could uh summarize maybe with uh like a tip about the fan out queries I would love to I would love to hear that like a little summary maybe. >> Yeah, I mean surfer had released a great extension that just gives you them from chat GPT. There's also some like nerdy ways to do it by inspecting taking the URL for chat GPT putting that into the network tab I believe and then refreshing all this like there's a there's a note on this as well. Um chat GPT shows you the fan out queries in the code. Um if you use perplexity it just shows you in the steps. So go to Perplexity um search for your keyword and then there's some tabs and there's a tab called steps and that's that shows you actually what live searches Perplexity is doing for that. Um and uh you know yeah M you're showing for example the fan out queries um all within surfer here as well. So um there's there's a you what you have to understand is like you know even taking a step back and looking at the specific queries understanding that you're no tool is ever going to capture all of them at once but um understanding who your ICP is and what are the things that could be you know those related concepts to what they're searching for that in relation to that main keyword. Um, that's a that's a a really important thing that you can >> what's what's important in there is that you need some time to get all of these possible fan out variations. Uh, because like one day you ask, the other day you ask and in a week you got seven answers. And if you look closely to the numbers on the right, you will see that there are some fan out queries that are always requested and some fan out queries that are like oneoffs. And this is how you can uh decide like okay I will focus on those instead of the others because well the sometimes they're like really long and very specific but sometimes they are general and you can see 25 and 26 and you can also see how they replaced each other basically. Uh and this is this is the year change obviously >> and you have that export button at the top right. So what you can also do is understand like what are the main themes of those fan out queries not just >> the themes are here actually on the top the common phrases. So you got like the the NLP type of uh extraction out of the whole fan outs. So you can see like oh leading is the one. So I have to be leading one uh to be uh considered in this area. You cannot be like yet another. Don't be afraid of claiming that leading spot. It's like an affirmation I know but uh in the end what's written will be then turned into answer and if you don't do it someone else will do it. I I like to analyze the exports, but you you guys did a great job and a nice approach there. So, I do applaud you for that. >> Good one. Uh 20 26 kill list. What used to work uh but can get you ignored or taken down right now? Definitely not listicles. Listicles still hold it position. But did you hear about anything? >> Yeah, I mean the the the the thing that I would I would say is like in the last three years in SEO, we saw AI completely change the way that we work, right? We've seen sites go massively high like the case of the Google heist and we've seen them get completely penalized, right? And I think there was like this little like period between October 22 and spring of 2023 when people just went crazy with AI content after chat GBT 3.5 and 40 started getting actually great results for us and then you know huge crashes. So I think the days of mass content generation or you know some insane blog workflow that can produce thousands of you know articles for you and and start to rank is the stuff that is going to get you in trouble. Now, whereas like what I would recommend is you spend time on your landing pages, like lots of time on your landing pages and testing lots of things on those landing pages, answering all those deal breaker questions, answering who it's for, and spending time on the pages that matter, not the high volume content generation that we used to see. How would you how would you uh do the testing on LLMs? Because when I was starting SEO, it wasn't that long ago, but say 2016. Um we used to be adjusting either H2 or title or something basically adding a little missing keyword. Then obviously ask for indexation. One minute later, we see the rankings change in the SER and we see like okay, good change or bad change. reverse and try it again. Try it again. Obviously, it doesn't work anymore in SEO because of the indexation uh is as a bottleneck. But is there anything uh that we can do to test on LLM's uh what will perform better? >> Yeah. To time like unfortunately we are talking about more time now between test result and conclusion. But I would um use your common sense as well. Like your common sense is your shortcut to you know not being able to test a thousand things but test a small number of things that matter. Watch those results happen over time. But if you also can focus your testing on things that you know are going to benefit users, right? answering that deal breaker question of, you know, here's a page on my landing page that describes all our integrations where you can learn more and decide whether it's a fit for you. You don't have to test that. You know that it's going to improve the user experience. So trying to balance something like, hey, I'm going to write a highly optimized intro paragraph that I think is going to retrieve my is going to improve my retrievability 100%. That would be a great test across pages that matter. But if it's like, hey, I'm going to add this thing that I know is going to inform my user to help them make a decision, like to me, that's no brainer implementing. Yeah, 100% no-brainer. Uh, you got 50,000 money pages. Uh, you do internal linking with AI or manually? >> Uh, 100% AI. Uh, you have you you can, you know, Yeah, look, e-commerce, uh, you're probably talking about an e-commerce site in that case. So, I hope if you're doing e-commerce, you've got, um, a lot of automation going on these days. So I would be looking at um what are the relevant pages uh clustering those with AI and uh and then doing crawls and things like that and finding orphan pages or pages that are too far away from the root directory and trying to get those linked within your categories etc etc. >> Someone was asking if you block uh the LLM info uh from the >> it's there. >> No, not at all. Yeah. >> Good. Good. It's good. llmtxt, but not llmtxt. >> Not llmtxt. It's just literally like all the information that I want uh uh chatgpt to know about me in a very fast way. Yeah. Be >> before before uh uh the LMTXT type of thing uh exploded because it exploded and a lot of people talking about it. Uh uh this is how I imagined the LLM txt basically plain text with information about about the business but uh it goes the wrong direction I guess with with that file. No. >> Yeah. I mean like you know I look it's not being used right now. may be used. You know, Charles Float, who who we both know, made a point about it being a very low lift, something that can be done in half an hour and you might as well do it. Like that's valid as well, but um you know, then you have like people like Patrick Stock saying there's like, you know, 140 pages on on people on the internet using this right now. There's no way that OpenAI is going to adopt it. So uh to us like it's all about just your priorities and your bandwidth. Some companies have more than others. Some really don't have very much at all. So you have to be >> Yoast is already embedding that automatically. Uh so I feel like we will be flooded uh with that with low quality LLM txt files. Uh so they will be neglected because they are worthless. Uh well yeah [laughter] uh 2 minutes left and we didn't leave too much time for for the case studies but maybe you can highlight some of the successes of the notebook agency uh like what did you do what did you achieve for the customer so people can >> for sure >> there there's one B2B case study that I just love who's a client who's been a great client to us uh they're in the indoor maps uh software ware space. Uh not a space that is a high volume but is a very high ticket and um uh for the companies that they sign they you know are like football stadiums or like mall you know malls or airports who who rely on indoor mapping solutions. So if you search for anything with respect to indoor maps for malls, airports, uh warehouses, um stuff like that on chat GPT, like they do super well and they're also a small company, too. So they punch way above their weight uh in terms of other companies that are much more resourceheavy. Um so that's just the one that I like to highlight. And then um there's more on AI notebook and SEO notebook. So um that's where I share all these deep dives and stuff like that. So, if you're interested in, you know, following me and and, you know, following my journey that I share and doing this real work actually in the trenches, not just talking about it, that's the best place for for you to to >> Yeah, I've been the subscriber from the I think very first email and I still keep on receiving them and I still keep on reading them and I still enjoy them. uh which is like a big big proof that uh when you are really close to the ground to the battlefield and share the same problems are as people that are reading it is engaging stuff. Thank you for that. One thing that people might not know that I'm starting to do um is I'm offering coaching actually um for agencies and uh in-house teams. So um that's something that uh you know I'm able to share all of my experiences with. Like there's never going to be a day where I'm not doing SEO. And uh and what what what we realize now is that with LLM being so new, people are looking for, you know, actionable processes, um tools, takeaways, prompt packs, claude skills, and all those things. And uh and I'm able to share those with um my coaching students uh for the exact things that we do inside Notebook Agency. So if anybody's interested in that um they can just go to steveto.coach and uh and read about that. There's no fancy website. It's just redirecting to a notion page. But honestly, it's grown so fast that um I don't really need a website for it at this point. So, we just have the the URL of steveto.coach. Um >> measurement of success. Uh I'm glad you didn't pick the the tldd.guru. >> That will [laughter] be too much. Uh all right. I know it's time. It's 700 pm here in Poland. Whoa. Uh quite packed stuff and I'm waiting for the transcript because there will be a lot to extract uh out of this conversation. Uh thank you Steve for joining uh today. We still have over aundred people uh on the stream and if I if I could I would be speechless but but I can't because it's my work to talk here right now. So, [laughter] thank you so much everyone. Really appreciate that. Big round of applause to you. Thank you so much. Thank you Steve for coming and well I wish everyone great rest of the week and all the successes in the AI world. Anything to add Steve? >> No man just always a pleasure. you know, we do this every year it seems like and you know, every year I get great feedback. So, I'm happy to keep coming back and doing this with you. Obviously, like we're friends in real life, so let's just keep it going and uh yeah, just a great journey for both of us. >> Thank you and have a great rest of the day. Take care everyone. >> Thanks for sticking with us guys too. That's amazing. >> Still 100 people. Come on. Lovely.
